So, at the start of 2012, I set myself the challenge of trying to read a book from every country (well, all 195 UN-recognised states plus former UN member Taiwan) in a year to find out what I was missing.cat pat
1234567890
(2*3+8)
5*2+2
A few days ago, Nathan Bierma asked me (by email) whether the construction exemplified by "as best (as) I can" might be a blend of "the best (that) I can" and "as well as I can". The puzzle is why we say "as best (as) I can", but not "as hardest (as) I can", or indeed "as ___ (as) I can" for any other superlative. 
Whatever the exact history, "as best <SUBJ> <MODAL>" is an old pattern. For instance, an anonymous drama from 1634, "The Mirror of New Reformation", has the lines
... I wil straight dispose,  as best I can, th'inferiour Magistrate ... 
And in "The Taming of the Shrew" (1594), Shakespeare has Petruchio say
And I haue thrust my selfe into this maze,  Happily to wiue and thriue, as best I may ... 
The pattern "as best as" seems to be more recent. The earlier citation I could find was from 1856, in "Night and Morning" (a play adapted from the novel by Bulwer-Lytton), where Gawtry says: 
In fine, my life is that of a great schoolboy, getting into scrapes for the fun of it, and fighting my way out as best as I can! 
It continues to be used by reputable authors, as in William Carlos Williams' poem 1917 poem "Sympathetic Portrait of a Child":
As best as she can  she hides herself  in the full sunlight 
But whatever the origins and history of the construction, Nathan's suggestion might have something to do with the forces that keep it in current use. So I thought I'd look at some current web counts; and since different search engines sometimes give counts that differ in random-seeming ways, I tried MSN, Yahoo and Google. I started by looking at the patterns "as best __ can" and "as best as __ can", across the different pronouns. I might still discover something relevant to Nathan's question, but along the way I stumbled on a strange pattern in the web search count, which I'll share with you now.